Mostly Used Commands in DevOps:-
1. Ls: This command is used to list the contents of a directory.
if you run ls -l, it will show the permissions, owner, size, and last modified date for each file in the directory.
2. Sudo: This command executes only that command with superuser privileges.
3. Pwd: This command will print your directory location, where you currently working.
4. Cat: This is used to concatenate and display files on the terminal. It can also be used to modify existing ones.
    cat -b: This adds line numbers to non-blank lines
    cat -n: This adds line numbers to all lines
    cat -s: This squeezes blank lines into one line
    cat –E: This shows $ at the end of the line.
5. Vim: This is a text editor used in Linux. It stands for “Vi Improved”.
    **Mostly used modes in VIM**
    ->Normal mode: This is the default mode in which vim starts. In normal mode, you can use various commands to navigate and edit the text.
    ->Insert mode: In insert mode, you can type text into the file. To enter insert mode, press the "i" key. To exit insert mode and return to normal mode, press the "Esc" key.
    ->Command mode: In command mode, you can enter commands to perform various actions, such as saving the file or quitting vim. To enter command mode, press the ":" key.
6. Grep: This command searches for a particular string/ word in a text file. This is similar to “Ctrl+F” but executed via a CLI.
7. Sort: This command is used to sort the results of search either alphabetically or numerically. It also sorts files and directories.
    ->sort -r: the flag returns the results in reverse order.
    ->sort -f: the flag does case-insensitive sorting.
    ->sort -n: the flag returns the results as per numerical order.
8. Tail: This command prints the last N number of data of the given input. By default, it prints 10 lines.
    We can specify the number of lines, that we want to display.
9. Chmod: This command is used to change the access permissions of files and directories.
For example: Following “chmod” command will give the user permission to read, write and execute a file.


